30 B. SYNSSON, M. R. SIEKS 
permitting factor 10-13. We now report on the application of difference spectroscopy to Aspergillus niger glucanolynise [GA; (1-4)-a-D-glucan glucohydrolase, EC 3.2.1.3] in order to quantitate the dissociation constants of various inhibitors and to characterize known functional amino acid side chains 1622, using relevant mutants and derivatives of GA. 
The three-dimensional structure of GA is not yet available, but kinetics have indicated that the active site is composed of seven consecutive binding subsites for glucosyl residues. Both (1-4)-a- and (1-6)-linked ac-D-glucose can be released from the non-reducing ends of starch and related saccharides at a single catalytic site situated between subsites 1 and 22-23. Several aromatic groups affected by binding have been identified by chemical modification of GA, including the essential Trp120 near substrate 4 (ref. 17); Trp212, Trp417, and Trp437 all associated with substrate 1 (ref. 18); and Trp170 that interacts specifically with isomaltose 
and Trp116 is critical for hydrolysis of the glucoside bond in maltose 
22). A combination of differential labelling22-26 and mutagenesis31 identified Asp176 and Glu179 as the catalytic base and general acid, respectively, and Glu180 as critical for substrate binding at substrate 2. Additional studies of the GA mutants Trp120-27, Trp170-1-Ala, and Asp176-Asn now reported improve the insight into the functional roles of these specific residues and provide a possible explanation for protein spectral perturbation observed in the 300-320-nm region32. Trp residues are also involved in a second binding site located in the C-terminal domain of GA1, which associates with starch granules, soluble polysaccharides, cyclomalto-oligosaccharides, or low molecular weight ligands33,34. In the present study, intrinsic aromatic reporter groups are exploited in order to characterize the interaction of different types of ligands with either the active site of GA or the second binding site situated in the C-terminal domain. 
EXPERIMENTAL 