LIGAND BRIDING TO GLUCOMATHASE 33 
(Fig. 1B). An increase in perturbation resulting from higher concentrations of acarbose (1) observed with GAI (Fig. I.C), but not GA2, indicates the binding of a second acarbose molecule to GA1. Addition of equimolar amounts of acarbose to GA1 previously complexed with the l-diol derivative (3) caused a larger perturbation than either GA1 complexed with excess of acarbose or GA1 complexed with the l-diol derivative (Fig. I.C). The reverse process, however, where an equimolar amount of the l-diol derivative was added to the acarbose-GA1 complex had little effect (Fig. I.C). This finding suggests that the l-diol derivative remains complexed at a second binding site when acarbose binds at the active site, but, when acarbose is already bound at the active site, the affinity for the l-diol derivative is much reduced. 
(a) (methyl acarbosilicate) 
1 R = 
(b) (c-diaz) 
(d) (methyl acarbosilicate) 
(e) (d-diaz) 
(e) (e-diaz) 
(f) (g-diaz) 
(h) (g-diaz) 
(i) (e-diaz) 
(ii) (e-diaz) 
(iii) 
(4)-methyl acarbosilicate) 
1 R = 
(b) (g-diaz) 
(c-diaz) 
(d) (e-diaz) 
(e-diaz) 
(e-diaz) 
Each of the four valleumine-type inhibitors (1-4) bound tightly to GA1 (Fig. 2). Because acarbose inhibits stoichiometrically at a GA concentration of 6 × 10-8, Kd was estimated as -6 × 10-12M using procedure I. The complex is extremely stable as only 15% of the GA activity was recovered after exhaustive dialysis against either 0.05M sodium acetate (pH 4.5) or 0.01M Trs (pH 7.5), a competitive inhibitor*. However, in 1.7M Trs (pH 7.6)1, complete dissociation occurs, presumably due to displacement by Trs rather than deprotoration of acarbose, since acarbose also binds tightly* to GA at pH 8.0. For the D-diazoc derivative (2)-GA complex, neither dissociation nor dis­placement of the inhibitor by the substrate was observed (Fig. 3) and a Kd (= K) of 1.4 × 10-8M was determined by procedure II. Methyl acarbosilicate (4) and the l-diol 