LEGAND BRIDING TO GLUCOMYLASE 31 
noile) were gifts from Drs. E. Möller, D. Schmidt, and E. Truscheit. (Bayer AG). 
Maltitol, the 0-glucose oxidase kit, and a-, p- and n-cyldodextrin were obtained from Sigma, and the n-glucon-1,5-lactone and a glucose dehydrogenase kit were obtained from Merck. 
Difference spectroscopy. — Ligand-induced perturbation of absorption spectra was determined at 25° as described [1,10], using a Cary 219 spectrophotometer and double-chamber curves with light paths of 4.375 mm. Sample and reference having GA (7-15μm, in 0.05m sodium acetate, pH 4.5) and buffer in either chamber were matched by scanning the range 240-350 nm at 0.05 nm/s, using a period of 10 s and a full recording scale of 0.05 absorbance unit. Ligand was added to the protein sample and the buffer reference, and the difference in absorbance (A4) between complexed and free GA was recorded. Due to slight baseline drift, the molar difference extinction coefficient (E) was not calculated from A4 measured to the baseline 1" but rather from the difference in A4 for two adjacent extrema3. 
The dissociation constants, K0, were determined as follows. Tight-binding ligands titrate GA at concentrations that produce a reliable A4 value, and a plot of As vs. ligand concentration yields a straight line*6. However, the K0 value is too low to be determined spectrophotometrically, but it may be estimated*6from the relation [E4/K0 > 10', where [E4] is the initial concentration of enzyme (procedure I). The inhibition constant, K, for non-stoichiometric tight-binding ligands is equal to K0 if hydroxils of the substrate in the presence of an equimolar amount of inhibitor does not increase exponentially with time and the ratio (a) of initial rates in the presence and absence of the inhibitor is essentially independent of the concentration of the substrate. This situation implies that neither displacement of the substrate nor dissociation of the enzyme-ligand complex, EL, occurs and K0 (= K0) can be calculated*6from [A4 (1-a) = (K0a) + [E4] (procedure II). Less-tight-binding ligands were added until a constant A was obtained ( = E0max ) for a chosen peak-to-trough difference*6. Assuming that A and the concentration of the complex are proportional, then [E4] ( = (El/Elmax ) × [E4]), and the concentrations of the free enzyme [E] and the ligand [L] can be determined to calculate the dissociation constant K0 as follows: K0 = [E4]/L[E4] = (El-1/El)/(El-1/El)/(El), where [L] is the initial concentration (procedure III). Finally, for loose-binding ligands, [L] > [L], and K0 and E0max can be derived graphically according to E = E0max [L] (K0 + [El])*6 (procedure IV). For a-, p-, and n-CD, procedure III was used for the high-affinity site and procedure IV for the low-affinity site. 
Modification of tryptophanyl residues. — The protection of Tp residues and enzyme activity by ligands against oxidation with N-bromosuccinimide was assessed as described [8a]. To a solution of the GA inhibitor complex or GA [13μm, in 0.1M sodium acetate (pH 4.5), 1.0 mL in a curve of 10-mm light path) was added N-bromosuccini-mide in increments, spectra were scanned after each increment, and the Tp contents were calculated [6from the absorbance at 280 nm. When the decrease in absorbance stopped, the residual N-bromosuccinimide was destroyed with l-tryptophan (15mq, 50 µL), and the inhibitor was removed by dialysis (4°, overnight) against 1.6M Tris-HCl (pH 7.6) followed by 50mq sodium acetate (pH 4.3), prior to measurement [16 of the activity.