LAGAND BIRDING TO GLUCOMATILASE 35 

Fig. 4. The A3/A2/A2 values from difference spectra obtained with GA1 (12-15nm) by the addition of 1-deoxyquinirvin (5) (A), N-methyl-1-deoxyquinirvin (6)(C), mihydl (7)(L), and aminigide (9)(A). 
A B 
A B 
A 
A 
Fig. 5. Oxidation of tryptophanyl residues in GA1 by N-bromosuccinimide: A GA1 (13nm) alone (A) or in the presence of 0.15 nm acarose (1)(O), methyl acarosinidide (4)(A), the D-gluc derivative (3)(I), B GA1 (12nm) alone (A) or in the presence of 1.5 nm-1-deoxyquinirvin (5)(C), N-methyl-1-deoxyquinirvin (6)(A), mihydl (7)(L), or 0.3 nm aminigide (8)(I). 
derivative (3) bound more weakly with a Kd of 1.6 × 10-6and 5.2 × 10-6, respectively, as determined using procedure III. Methyl acarosinidide (4), a pseudodissaccharide, perturbed the GA spectrum in a manner identical to that of acarose (1) despite its much higher Kd value (Fig. 1A). The four 1-deoxyquinirvinins 5-8, representing mono­saccinate analogues, had similar Kd values ranging from 2.0 × 10-6to 5.9 × 10-6and as determined by procedure III (Table I, Fig. 4), which agrees with the Kd 1.6 × 10-6and reported 9 for 1-deoxyquinirvin (5) and Rhizopus GA. 
The four valentamine-derived inhibitors 1-4 prevented the oxidation of approxi­mately two TTP residues in GA1 (Fig. S4); three conferred retention of 70% of the activity, whereas, with the 1-dio derivative (3), only 40% was retained. In contrast, none of the 1-deoxyquinirvinins 5-8 hindered inactivation despite their high affinity and protection of either one or two TTP residues (Fig. 5B). 
Disaccharide substrates and weak inhibitors. — The difference spectra induced by 


Fig. 5. Oxidation of tryptophanyl residues in GA1 by N-bromosuccinimide: A GA1 (13nm) alone (A) or in the presence of 0.15 nm acarose (1)(O), methyl acarosinidide (4)(A), the D-gluc derivative (3), only 40% was retained. In contrast, none of the 1-deoxyquinirvinins 5-8 hindered inactivation despite their high affinity and protection of either one or two TTP residues (Fig. 5B). 
Disaccharide substrates and weak inhibitors. — The difference spectra induced by