encyclopedia Baidu Bajke, do not represent resources that can be used to map connections between global languages. 
The elites that participate of Twitter, Wikipedia and book translations are not representative of the entire human population, yet still represent groups that are worthy of study since elites often drive the cultural, political, technological, and economic processes with which observers of global language patterns are concerned. 
Constructing three Global Language Networks 
To construct the three global language networks we need to first identify the links that are statistically significant with respect to the population of speakers expressed in each of the three datasets. A statistical significant connection is a connection where the probability of finding a speaker, or record, connecting languages i and j is larger than what we would expect based on the prevalence of these languages alone (P(i,j) > P(j)P(j)). Here, we use the ϕ-correlation and i-statistics to assess the statistical significance of language connections. 
Let Mj be the matrix representing the number of users, or translations, from language i to language j. Then the correlation ϕj between languages i and j is given by: 
Mj N − Mj Mj N − Mj N (1) 
where Nj represents the number of multilingual users (or translations) expressed in language i (Nj = J)Mj j and N represents the total number of users or translations in the dataset. ϕj is positive for languages than tend to co-occur more than what we would expect based on their representation in a dataset, and negative otherwise. To assess the statistical significance of these correlations we use the i-statistic, which is given by: 
tij = ϕjN D − 2 
1 − ϕjj 2 (2) 
where D − 2 represents the degrees of freedom of the correlation. Here we consider D = max(N,i,j) since this provides a more stringent criteria for finding a correlation than using D+N. 