Supplementary Materials 
S1 Data 
S2 Language notation and demographics 
S3 Additional Calculations 
S4 Language centrality: alternatives and robustness 
S5 Famous people per language 
* The datasets used in this paper are available on our supporting online material (SOM) page: macro media.mit.edu/qin. 
S1 Data 
S1.1 Twitter 
Twitter is a microblogging and online social networking service where users communicate using text messages of up to 140 characters long called tweets. As of December 2012, Twitter had over 500 million registered users from all over the world, tweeting in many different languages. Of these, 200 million users were active every month30. 
Twets are attributed to their authors and can be used to identify polyglots and the language communities they connect, making Twitter a good source for representing the GLN of tens of millions of people. Registered Twitter accounts make up for 7% of world population, but its demographics may not reflect real-life demographics31. For example, Twitter users in the United States are younger and hold more liberal opinions than the general public32. 
We collected 1,009,054,492 tweets between December 6, 2011 and February 13, 2012, through the Twitter garden hose, which gives access to 10% of all tweets. We detected the language of each tweet using the Chromium Compact Language Detector (CLD)14, which was chosen for its wide language support and its relatively accurate detection of short messages33.34. However, any automated language detection is prone to errors35, all the more so when performed on short, informal texts such as tweets. To reduce the effect of such errors, we applied the following methods. 
20
Downloaded from https:/www.cambridge.org/core. McGill  University Libraries, on 15 Feb 2017 at 05:40:37, subject to the Cambridge Core terms of use, available at https:/www.cambridge.org/core/terms. https://doi.org/10.1017/9781316591505.017
