what is it that does this same thing in the nature of man, that he may rise again, phrenix-like, from his own ashes (caput mortuum)? 
The solution in the alchemical retort, if digested a certain length of time, will turn into a red elixir, which is called the universal medicine. It resembles a fiery water and is luminous in the dark. During the process of digestion it passes through many colors which has given rise to its being called the peacock because of its iridescence during one of the periods of its digestion. If the augmentations of its power be carried too far, the test tube containing the substance will explode and vanish as dust. This commonly occurs and is the greatest danger involved in the preparation of the medicine for men and metals. If developed too far, it will also seep through the glass, for there is no physical container sufficiently strong to hold it, The reason for this is that it is no longer a substance but a divine essence partaking of the interpretative power of Divinity. When it is properly developed, this universal solvent in liquid form will dissolve into itself all other metals. 
In this high state the universal salt is a liquid fire. This salt dissolved with the proper amount of any metal and run through the different stages of digestion and rotations; of augmentations will eventually become a medicine for the transmuting of inferior metals. 
The True Way of Nature by Hermes Trismegistus, given out by a genuine Freemason, I.C.H., describes the danger of over-augmenting the universal salt: "But this 
multiplication cannot be carried on ad infinitum but it attains completeness in the ninth rotation. For when this tincture has been rotated nine times it cannot be exalted any further because it will not permit any further separation. For as soon as it perceives only the smallest degree of material fire it goes instantly into a flux and passes through the glass like hot oil through paper." 
In classifying the processes through which the chemical elements must pass before the Hermetic medicine is produced, lack of uniformity in terminology is evidenced, for in The True Way of Nature seven stages are given, while in the Dictionnaire Mytho-Hermétique twelve are noted. These twelve are linked with the signs of the zodiac in a manner worthy of consideration. 
1. Arries, Calculation 5. Leo, Digestion 9. Sagittarius, Incineration 
2. Taurus, Congelation 6. Virgo, Distribution 10. Capricorn, Fermentation 
3. Gemini, Frustration 7. Libra, Sublimation 11. Aquarius, Multiplication 
4. Cancer, Dissolution 8. Scorpio, Separation 12. Pisces, Projection 
This arrangement opens an interesting field of speculation which may be of great service if intelligently carried out. These twelve "steps" leading up to the accomplishment of the Magunum Opus are a reminder of the twelve degrees of the ancient Rosicrucian Mysteries. 
To a certain degree, Rosicrucianism was chemistry theologized and alchemy 
philosophized. According to the Mysteries, man was redeemed as the result of his passage in rotation through the twelve mansions of the heavens. The twelve processes by means of which the "secret essence" may be discovered remind the student forcibly of the 
