True enlightenment cannot come from earthbound philosophies. We must find a source higher than ourselves, and for the Egyptians and Hermeticians of all ages, that source was symbolized by the Sun. This is not primitive sun worship but a genuine regard for the higher alchemy of the universe expressed in the Operation of the Sun. It is a state of consciousness less cut off from the source of life and more in tune with the internal dimensions of the cosmos that are reflected within us. 
Whether it is seen simply as the governor of dark and light, the revealer of Cosmic Ages, or the Mind of God, the Operation of the Sun demonstrates the Outrobors -- the Fountain of Foundims -- the seemingly endless creation of light and energy feeding off the One Thing within itself. Each one of us can live the same way, if we tap into the inexhaustible reserves of our nuclear Self. To do that, of course, requires peeling away all the leaden layers of falseness that have grown over it in the course of our lives and withdrawing the carbon rods of control placed there by ego. This ontobioc reaction within us is an amazing and unbelievably powerful source of pure energy that can heal our faults and sustain high levels of health and enthusiasm, inspiration and bliss in our lives. 
If you follow the Operation of the Sun, which is alchemy, something amazing will begin to unfold in your life. When you with a force instead of opposing it, you gain power, and you finally know what you have to do in your life. You experience a Conjunction in which the powers both Above and Below work together on all levels of your being. Truly astonishing synchronicities will occur at the intersection of your mind and the One Mind. 
It is as if your interest in alchemy will cause alchemy to become interested in you. 
Acanum Five:  The gateway to the Above is through the True Imagination. 
The True Imagination exists on the fine line between real and unreal, manifested and unmanifested. Where do you draw the line at what is real? Your fantasies? Your dreams? Your thoughts? Psychology -- is that real? Should we accept the view of quantum physicists that matter itself is an illusion? According to the alchemists, everything is real. Everything we perceive is all part of the same One Thing, and we are as connected to it as we want to be. 
As the Gateway to the Above, the True Imagination is connected to the physical reality of the One Thing through the archetypes and to the realm of the One Mind through the light of consciousness. When these forces of Above and Below come together, anything can happen. Many people have experienced this power at the borderline between sleeping and waking, or between death and life. One ten-year-old boy, who had a near-death 
experience, described it as "walking inside your mind." At such times, we realize that the universe is alive with Mind, and Mind is a real place, even though the light that dawns there is the imagination. 
Using the power of True Imagination, we enter the Greater Mysteries that begin with our Fermentation, in which we experience an influx of meaningful insight and higher inspiration. This altered state of consciousness reveals the true alchemy of a person's life. 
53