142 11 Monetary Policy
At the Pittsburgh meeting of the G20 in September 2009, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) was called on to investigate “the range of options countries have adopted or are considering as to how the financial sector could make a fair and substantial contribution toward paying for any burdens associated with government interventions to repair the banking system”. The IMF (2010) suggested either the adoption of levels in financial institutions, or the adoption of measures increasing public revenues, such as through the FFT.
Similar taxes exist today (such as in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, France, India and Italy). Very small financial transaction costs are also imposed by the United Kingdom (UK), the US and Switzerland. The cost was estimated as being between 0.5 % and 1.5 % of the GDP (IMF 2011). The first suggestion was strongly opposed by the UK. The US also rejected embracing the logic behind a similar tax–control tool. In contrast, Germany and France were zealous supporters of the idea (Wall Street Journal 2010).
The objections are rationalized by the facts that (a) it provides a tool for the deviation from the ideal condition of zero transaction cost, (b) toxic products produced would be covered in any case, which are the ones giving rise to high risks, (c) it could possibly cause a decrease in financial transactions, (d) it could possibly cause a decrease in the market’s liquidity and (e) it is doubtful whether it would reduce variability.
The conclusions from studying the functionality of a similar tax (IMF 2011) agree that it would be important in terms of accumulating resources, but it would be of a doubtful capacity as a tool for the control of the financial market. Specifically, the IMF working paper (2011) estimates that a tax coefficient of 0.5–1 base points could increase the global GDP by $20 bn annually. However, as this paper indicates, a financial transaction tax could create many distortions by reducing security values and raising the cost of capital.
Hence, it ultimately seems that the imposition of an FFT in Europe will take more the form of a fund for banking bailouts (meaning that the future burden on tax-payers from similar activities will be reduced) and less the form of a tool for the control of the systematic risks developed in the financial system.
References
Almunia M, Agustin SB, Eichenberger B, O’Rourke KH, Rao G (2009) From great depression to great credit crisis: similarities, differences and lessons, presented at the 50th Economic Policy Panel Meeting, 23–24 Oct 
Ashland A (2012) Lessons from reforms in Central and Eastern Europe in the wake of the Global Financial Crisis, Working paper series WPT12-7, Peterson Institute for International Economics Bernanke B, James H (1991) The gold standard, deflation, and financial crisis in the great depression: an international comparison. In: Glenn Hubbard R (ed) Financial markets and financial crises. University of Chicago Press, Chicago 
ECB (2011a) The monetary policy of ECB, BISNT 978-92-89-0778-1 
ECB (2011b) The implementation of monetary policy in the Euro area, BISNT 1725-7255 Eigensson G, Woodford M (2003) Optimal monetary policy in a liquidity trap. NBER working paper No. 9688
Downloaded from https://www.cambridge.org/core. Huron University College, on 07 May 2021 at 15:37:37, subject to the Cambridge Core
https://www.cambridge.org/core/terms. https://doi.org/10.1017/CCOL052158244X.013 