8.5 Debt Management 89

Fig. 8.3 Public debt (GDP percentage) (Source: AMECO database. Note: Projections after 2012 are estimates)
to this principle, if consumers are absolutely predictable and have absolute access to financial markets, then every debt increase will lead to a decrease in their current consumption because they will take the future burden from an increase in taxes into consideration. In fact, the decrease in their consumption will be such that it will eliminate the benefits of the expansionary fiscal policy. The simple idea behind the theorem is that rational agents realize that substituting taxes today for taxes plus interest tomorrow via government debt financing is the same (BarP 1974).
Krugman (2011) opposes the logic behind the “Ricardian Equivalence”; implementing the hypothesis of the absolute effectiveness of the markets is difficult to apply in the real world. Even if a situation existed where the aforementioned presumptions did apply (i.e., perfect intra-generational linkages, non-distortionary taxes and perfect rationality), then the increase in expenditure would not necessar-ily be permanent. It would suffice if governments ensured that the debt grew at a smaller rate than the tax basis. Developed countries avoided excessive indebtedness in the past in this fashion, i.e. by essentially implementing the views of Keynes, during an era when, for instance, the debt of Great Britain in relation to the GDP (1914–1956) was much bigger than that in 2008–2010.
Reinhart and Rogoff (2010a, b) were further criticized. Lowrey (2013) underlined the difficulty of setting set straight lines between growth and debt given the panoply of factors at play. Hernod et al. (2013) identified a number of weaknesses in the study that sharply altered the final results (e.g., coding errors, selective exclusion of available data and unconventional weighing of summary statistics). Specifically, their findings show that the average real GDP growth rate for countries with debt levels exceeding 90 % of the GDP is 2.2 and not –0.1, as Reinhart and Rogoff had calculated. Following the correction of certain errors, the critical percentage of 90 % was no longer determinative for growth. The research by Reinhart and Rogoff also included a serious nocturnal problem; it provided no proof on the direction of causality between high debt and growth. The possibility that debt is swelling as a result of the recession, instead of causing it, is in reality, considered as more likely (Irons and Bivens 2010). Krugman (2013) reaches the same conclu-sion. While identifying an association between high debt and slow growth, he
