2 1 Introduction
creation of European unification. The economic reality gave rise to an independent dynamic of its own that in turn influenced politics.
This constant dialectic relationship between politics and economy is very diffi-cult to interpret in a collective manner by economic theories that focus on the logic of balance, and human economic behavior that is based on optimal expectations. Reality is probably driven by forces that influence each other, leading dynamically from one point of imbalance to another.
By this rationale, certain thoughts are expressed on the evolution of European unification in the next decade. It should be noted that effort is made to objectively assess the developments, without presenting economic policy suggestions that would shape a more preferable future. The presentation and critique of the facts includes many calculated judgments.
This book serves an additional purpose. It monitors the evolution of economic thinking and the conduct of economic policy as they evolved over time during the crisis, in parallel with the evolution of the crisis itself. It thus depicts the inter-influence of the tripeltty reality-theory-politics that provides an integrated level of reference for shaping the future.
The end of 2012 and the beginning of 2013 is not merely a change of calendar year. The end of 2012 was the landmark for the emergence of change in the European Central Bank (ECB) stance on the provision of unlimited liquidity for controlling risk in the European bonds markets, within the context of its role of a Lender of Last Resort. It also signals a change in European opinion to an apprecia-tion that the Great European Recession does not have (no longer has or does not have solely) fiscal fragility or competitive reclassiness features, but has characteristics directly linked to the peculiar European Monetary Union. The December, 2012 Summit summarized and established the – up to that point –institutional formations in the fiscal union (significant decisions on this sector were already made in 2011–2012) and banking union sectors. Additionally, throughout the crisis structural reforms were promoted (competitive union) aimed at improving competitiveness. The developmental grid for all three sectors men-tioned above aims at promoting the political union. It is not known how and when and if a level of European unification will even be achieved, in the sense of the word“union”. Our research leads us to the conclusion that it is much more possible that we will be living in a fragmented European Federation in the next decade, rather than in a European Union. We are now aware of the fact that, during periods of crisis the rate in which supranational entities are shaped accelerates. When the evolution rate of supranational collaborations is accelerated under the pressure of opposing forces, then this may lead either to conflict, or to collaboration and the achievement of further unification. Today, in mid-2013, the nature of the EU evolution, with the Eurozone as its core, is one of the top three most important global dynamic components, without a precisely determined evolution.
Ultimately, the reason why the European unification procedure is particularly composite and attractive to scientific observation is its peculiar nature.
This book has four parts. Part A is devoted to the evolution and the current status of the crisis. Part B analyzes the structural elements of the crisis. Part C analyzes the
Downloaded from https:/www.cambridge.org/core. McGill  University Libraries, on 15 Feb 2017 at 05:47:37, subject to the Cambridge Core terms of use, available at https:/www.