2.2 The Historical Evolution of the Crisis 13
crisis, and after it ended, federations underwent a process of centralization. This centralization made it easier for federal governments to introduce, or extend, measures aimed the equalization of incomes across regions. Thus, expenditure distribution before the crisis was 50 % local, 20 % state and 30 % federal government, whereas after 1940 the respective percentages were 30 %, 24 % and 46 %.
The 2008 economic crisis has a deterministic impact on the direction and the quality of European unification. To put it in Jean Monnet’s (1976) words, “Europe will be forged in crises and will be the sum of the solutions adopted for those crises”.“Crisis represents an opportunity. I’m not saying that I enjoy being in a crisis. But I’m not worried. Europe always moved forward in times of crisis. Sometimes you need a little pressure for certain decisions to be taken” (Schünble 2010).1
2.2 The Historical Evolution of the Crisis
The US subprime crisis of 2008 laid the foundations for a wider global crisis. The starting point of the crisis in Europe was in October 2009, when the new Greek government revealed that the size of the fiscal deficit was much larger than the previous government had claimed, with fiscal holes being greater than 10 % of GDP. Two weeks later the fiscal deficit was officially estimated at 12.7 % of GDP. This immediately impacted on investor confidence in the fiscal sustainability of the Greek economy, and a call for higher interest rates on government debt. In December 2009 the three credit rating agencies – Fitch, Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s – downgraded Greece’s sovereign credit rating. The lending rate of the Greek economy reached 8.7 % in April 2010, an increase of 270 base points over the previous month. The need for the country’s bail-out by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund (IMF) subsequently became obvious in May 2010. The sum of the 3-year bail-out package for the Greek economy amounted to €110 bn: initially comprised of €80 bn in bilateral loans and €30 bn from the IMF.
During this period, European Finance Ministers announced the establishment of the European Financial Stability Facility (EFSF), a fund of €500 bn, and the ECB launched the Securities Market Program (SMP).
In October 2010 the credit rating agency Fitch downgraded the sovereign credit rating of Ireland. Furthermore, the Irish government announced that to achieve its deficit goals by 2014, funding of €15 bn over a 4 year period was required, i.e. almost 10 % of the Irish GDP. A direct impact was the increase of the 10-year government bonds by 250 base points, reaching levels in excess of 9 %. In November of the same year, Ireland too had to accept aid through the bail-out mechanism, amounting to €85 bn. Concerns over the high cost for the bail-out of the Irish banking system created a run on Irish sovereign debt. In December of the same year both Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s credit rating agencies downgraded the country’s sovereign credit rating.