18.2 The Political Economy of the European Crisis 257
Table 18.3 Costs and risks
Private sector cost (€ bn) Liquidity measures and deleveraging requirements (€ bn)
Greece bail out 105.0 State aid to banking system (end 2011) 682
Cyprus bail in 6.0 Emergency Liquidity Assistance (ELA) 994
ECB liquidity providing (April 2013) 1,176
Credits of Target2 (end of 2012) 800
Stabilization programs in states 558
Deleveraging requirements≥1,500
Note: The ECB Liquidity providing is the sum of: main refinancing operations, longer-term
refinancing operations, marginal lending facility, and other liquidity-providing operations
international trade disadvantages of a “strong new Euro”, this would be the only
way to safeguard the net external international position. In contrast a hypothetical
“weak new Euro” would lead to country walkouts, in turn leading to the conversion
of liquidity amounts to debt at a multiple loss, and then – inevitably – to huge
writdowns and the destruction of the net international investment position of
Northern Europe.
What will happen, however, when social, political and economic powers are
formed that are not willing to function together towards unification? There will be
no choice other than to cut them off (even temporarily) from the total dynamic of
European unification; not in the sense of a structural relationship change, but their
relative isolation from the total dynamic. An example today may be Cyprus and
possibly in the future the public sector in Greece and the UK, or even entire sectors,
such as parts of the European banking system. Non-financial corporations in Spain,
Ireland, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Slovenia and Cyprus pay an average of 4–5 % for
new loans maturing in 1–5 years; in contrast Austria, Belgium, Germany, Finland,
France and the Netherlands pay 3 %.
However, how different is the fragmented prospect of the European Federation
from the differentiated integration prospect that forms the current base policy on
European unification (united in diversity)? Differentiated forms of cooperation in
the EU originally focused only on a strategy of “last resort” for European integra-
tion in the areas of common currency, justice and home affairs, Fiscal Compact,
banking union and EU patent agreements. It is the only means of achieving the
deeper integration proposed to overcome the European debt crisis (von Oudarza
2013). In this respect two strategies have been developed: a state-centered and an
EU-focused center of gravity, with the majority of member states having decided in
few of the first option. However, irrespective of the two strategies addressing
differentiated integration under the crisis, certain European elements would not fit
in – even through loose integration procedures – and would in effect remain apart
either by choice or by force. This may be permanent or temporary. In the best case
scenario the timeframe of the reverse course of full integration is of critical
importance. The way in which fragmentation is formed (in all forms: financial,
political and cultural) will be a determinative factor in shaping the way in which the
European monetary union (the Euro) will be ultimately organized.
Downloaded from https://www.cambridge.org/core. University of East Anglia, on 06 Jun 2018 at 19:37:38, subject to the Cambridge Core
Core
