Appropriate Antibiotic Use for Acute Respiratory Tract Infection in Adults CLINICAL GUIDELINE
38). It has also been implicated as a cause of Lemirere syndrome (39), which is a rare and life-threatening con-dition. The role of F-receptor in pharyngitis and subsequent development of Lemirere syndrome war-rant further study. Routine testing for F-receptorin is not recommended, but clinicians should remain vigil-ant and suspect Lemirere syndrome in adolescent and young adult patients with severe pharyngitis. Urogen di-agnosis and treatment of Lemirere syndrome is neces-sary. The clinical features of the disease are summarized in Table. No rapid diga-nostic tests for other bacterial causes of pharyngitis ex-ist, and the risks and benefits associated with antibiotic treatment are unclear.
Appropriate Management Strategies 
The 2012 DISA clinical guidelines recommend an-tibiotic therapy only for patients with a positive strepo-coccal test result (13). Patients with confirmed acute group A streptococcal pharyngitis should be treated for a duration likely to eradicate group A Streptococcus from the pharyngis (usually 10 days) with an appropriate narrow-spectrum antibiotic. Specific regimens are listed in the Table.
Even though most pharyngitis cases are caused by viruses, more than 40% of adults presenting with a sore throat receive an antibiotic prescription (34). For pa-tients diagnosed with group A streptococcal infection,
Figure. Summary of the American College of Physicians and Centers for Disease and Control and Prevention advice for high-value care on appropriate antibiotic use for acute respiratory tract infection in adults.

Appropriate Management Strategies 
The 2012 DISA clinical guidelines recommend an-tibiotic therapy only for patients with a positive strepo-coccal test result (13). Patients with confirmed acute group A streptococcal pharyngitis should be treated for a duration likely to eradicate group A Streptococcus from the pharyngis (usually 10 days) with an appropriate narrow-spectrum antibiotic. Specific regimens are listed in the Table.
Telling Points for Clinicians When Discussing the Use of Antibiotics in Patients With ARI
(14). Patients with ARI Patients with ARI Patients with ARI 