Adapted from M. Harris, MD, MPH; Laura A. Hickles, DC; and Amy Casonen, MD, PhD, MBA, for the High Value Care Task Force of the American College of Physicians and for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
Aaron M. Harris, MD, MPH; Laura A. Hickles, DC; and Amy Casonen, MD, PhD, MBA, for the High Value Care Task Force of the American College of Physicians and for the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention”
Background: Acute respiratory tract infection (ARTI). It is the most common reason for antibiotic prescription in adults. Antibiotics are often inappropriately prescribed for patients with ARTI. This article presents best practices for antibiotic use in healthy adults (those without chronic lung disease or immunocompromised conditions) presenting with ARTI.
Methods: A narrative literature review of evidence about appro-priate antibiotic use for ARTI in adults was conducted. The most recent clinical guidelines from professional societies were com-plemented by meta-analyses, systematic reviews, and random-ized clinical trials. To identify evidence-based articles, the Cochrane Library, PubMed, Medline, and EMBASE were selected. The authors selected the authors’ authors’ publications.
Subject Headings: “acute bronchitis,” “respiratory tract in-fection,” “pharyngitis,” “rhinosinusitis,” and “the common cold.”
High-Value Care Advice 1: Clinicians should not perform test-ing or initiate antibiotic therapy in patients with bronchitis unless pneumonia is suspected.
High-Value Care Advice 2: Clinicians should test patients with symptoms suggestive of group A streptococcal pharyngitis (for
A)
C)
D)
E)
